So you at this point in the course have gotten your application back and now you're on to the bug testing.
This is a crucial phase of the application process.
You listened to my previous little bit.
Don't be afraid of bugs.
Expect the bugs and embrace the bugs.
There is no reason why the bug hunting process can't be fun because the more bugs you find the more
bugs you can fix.
The more bugs I find the less bugs that my users will find.
I like to think of bugs.
Kind of like panning for gold.
You just strike over here or you strike over there and eventually you'll find something with software
it honestly you can't find every single bug.
But you want to find the big ones.
So don't neglect this section and I'm going to give you some tips and tricks some warm up ideas for
how you can find bugs.
The general idea behind how you're going to look for all of the bugs in your mobile application or your
web application or whatever your freelancer is delivered to you is just time on task.
That's why we talked previously about using the poem Medoro.
Personally if I have a medium size application I will go through four to five pomo Darroze and that's
hour and 40 minutes of solidly hitting the Web site or that mobile application or whatever it is that
you built.
You might not be as OCD as I am but I prefer I would like to see you at least hit the major areas so
the first thing I do whenever I get my application back is I start with number 1 graphics graphics is
an easy one and it's a it's a kind of a sore spot I've noticed and very often when you find problems
in the graphics department.
Now when you have a developer.
Most likely are not.
Also the graphic designer they most likely took design from somewhere else earlier in the course.
We talked about getting a graphic designer and how you can get the end product which is a photoshop
file their developer can convert that into your application.
If you didn't get a graphic designer and you're using a template I still suggest you do a quick view
of the graphics itself.
It's not really the same because templates are typically designed to look good no matter what and the
developers not following a set design picture he's just using the elements that are available.
Let's assume that you use a graphic designer and he is ninety nine designs even you have a page that
you designed for your web application.
Now look at the application that your freelancer brought up or is delivered to you in a separate window
open up a photoshop file of your design.
If there is immediate discrepancies.
Well there you go write those down.
Send them to your freelancer.
I want you to make sure that you're using Google Docs or this entire thing and when you use Google Docs
you find a bug right next to it.
The time that you find the bug at.
Don't ask me why it helps later and helps the developer.
It's just worth doing.
You do take a quick glance.
You'll look at your graphic design.
You might notice something immediately after that.
Once you think you've noticed all the big things look really small.
Zoom into your photoshop file and look at the application.
Chances are you'll find things that are off.
There is a term we use called pixel perfect pixel perfect means that the application matches every single
pixel of the graphic design.
It's up to you if you want to be that close to the actual design.
I always go for pixel perfect.
There's no reason it shouldn't be the case that the developer can make the exact same way that your
graphic designer designed it.
But if you want to have that strict of a guideline it's very possible that you could end up with a lot
of mismatches.
Do the buttons look the exact same to the pages load correctly.
Are there breaks in the line pages.
Look at the width of the website.
Is it wider than it was in the graphic design.
Is the background color match the graphic design.
These are things that are very common and a lot of developers will try to cut corners by skipping over.
It might even be the case that you can't put your finger on what exactly is wrong but it's worth highlighting
it to the freelancer and showing them hey this doesn't look right because chances are if you drill down
and zoom in you'll notice that something is off in some detail that they missed.
So graphic design is fairly intuitive.
Just use your eyeballs and scan it.
See if you notice anything that's off and make sure that you report it.
If you don't want to stick to pixel perfect guideline that's up to you.
But you do want to make sure that sticks to your graphic design because you liked your graphic design
to begin with.
There's no reason to change it at this point.
The second thing I move onto after that are forms.
Chances are your application has a form somewhere in it.
Well then not it's a form for logging in or a form for entering an account information you know whatever
your application does.
Chances are it's going to take input from the user.
Look at those forms.
These are problem areas every single time we build an application.
Try filling them out as yourself.
Try filling out some honest information see how that reacts after you do that.
Try bouncing around the page and try to fill out all of the functionality of your application.
Then go back and imagine you're someone else.
We call this in software design test cases just imagine you're someone else a few you signed up as someone
who is 30 years old go back and sign up as someone who's 45 years old 6 years old.
Change your name try inserting an accent mark on top of your name just try different combinations out.
It doesn't make sense to you.
Thinking about it because probably you're not familiar with how the software process works but the more
you do this the more likely you'll find some kind of internal error.
At first you'll notice immediately there's some issues.
One of my favorite things to do with forms is enter into maximum character limit.
A lot of developers forget to add the maximum character limit.
So meaning what it says they like first name last name.
What if my first name has 100 digits in it you'd say Why does that matter.
Well chances are someone is going to try that.
There's a good likelihood that it crash your system.
So try doing that try entering a name that has foreigner characters and see if the system accepts it.
If it doesn't accept it what happens.
Try to break and try to be the worst user you possibly can.
Try to introduce special characters in in a percent sign or an asterisk or things that you wouldn't
expect to put in your form.
If it asked for a digit.
Try putting in a word and if it asked for a word try putting in a special character try to put in everything
wrong that you can think of like if it asked for state your city would ask for your zip code put your
state do these kind of basic things.
You'll find out very quickly where the developer cut corners and things he or she might have forgotten
to accommodate for after you're done screwing around with your forms and anything that can take in information.
Try creating multiple counts.
Making out for a fake user or another fake user another fake user and another fake user.
Now if your application communicates between the two try to communicate for example with a sprint click
application we had one that had messaging.
And so in order to test the messaging it wasn't sufficient for us to create one account and send a bunch
of messages.
We had to create hundreds of accounts with different information and then communicate back and forth.
We didn't just try to communicate in single regular text which try to communicate messages or try to
communicate in special characters.
We tried to communicate in numbers who tried to communicate anything that could possibly break the system.
You don't have to use 100 users but you should create three or four after you've tested out the graphics
the forms you've created a bunch of accounts and you try to do any type of interaction where these accounts
communicate with each other.
Why then typically just move on to a phase where I try to see every single screen.
Now you might have forgotten all of the screens you design with your graphic designer or there are a
lot of screens you might not have thought about.
Try to find a page that doesn't exist.
If you have a search bar in your application go to a search bar and just search for all sorts of things
that don't exist.
See how it reacts.
If your application handles images that's a big area for potential bugs.
Try uploading files that aren't correct.
You can ask for a jpeg PSINet a PNB if it takes all common image files.
Try sending in a movie file to see what happens.
Try sending a image that is way too large and one that's way too small.
Honestly you don't even need to certainly plan it out just see what's on your computer upload it and
see what happens.
Chances are you'll run into something and you can keep growing your google doc list.
Now I want to stress in this lecture that there is no set plan for bug hunting.
People build their entire careers off of software testing so don't expect that you're going to get every
single one.
Don't even expect that you're going to get 80 percent of them.
There are a lot of bugs that only come out under for Ensign's performance stress.
You're not going to be able to find all the bugs that happen that could potentially happen when you
have thousands of users so don't expect too much.
Keep in mind that these things are going to happen in the future.
The point to being a good bug hunter I think is just spending as much time as you can with your application.
Try to flip over every single stone you can without getting too excessive.
You don't want to spend tens of hours messing with your application unless you have the free time to
do that.
And that's worth doing for you.
I typically think that it's not try to be economical with your time but at the same time make sure you're
spending at least an hour playing with it because I think that in the end you'll have a much better
outcome.
Keep in mind also that bugs typically operate in clusters once you find one bug.
It's not that you just found a bug you found an entire area that your developer hasn't thought about.
So you can really kind of go after that.
The example.
Maybe he didn't plan for how the system reacts when it's under Wi-Fi or how it reacts when it's on the
edge network.
When you're on say like the Edge network meaning you're really out there you have a very limited connection.
How did the pages of load other sections are very browser heavy.
If you try that out you might get a cluster of bugs so happy hunting.
Spend as much time as you can on it.
Don't get frustrated by the ones you can't find.
Keep in mind you're not going to find all of them.
This lecturer didn't have a step by step structure bug testing unfortunately just does not have a structure.
It's really kind of an art and less science so I think the best way of being a good bug hunter is to
have fun with it.
Try to beat your application.
Try to break it down try to screw it up as much as you can because at the end of the day the more you
do that the better the application is going to be in its final version.